# Trade-Ahead

# Context
The stock market has always been a public market that serves as a meeting point for individuals and entities interested in issuing, buying and selling stocks that either trade on the stock exchange or over-the-counter. This serves as opportunities for investors to partake in the profits of publicly-listed companies into which they have bought stocks or made other investments thereby growing wealth, and providing tax benefits. Investments are tested ways of achieving financial security which can be attributed to compounding interests on the investments.

Stocks, also known as equities represent ownership in a company albeit fractional. Therefore, losses and gains will be shared with the investors. In order to maximise dividends on investments, investors are advised to maintain a diversified portfolio when investing in stocks. This then means that an optimal mix of securities that diversifies and hedges the investments need to be determined. Seeing that there are several financial metrics and companies to consider, it will be laborious and time-consuming to analyse these metrics manually to determine the high-yielding stocks amongst the swarm of different stocks. Doing a cluster analysis to group stocks with similar characteristics can help investors determine which stocks to invest in across the different market segments and protect their investments from losses. With these clusters, investors can make informed choices based on some key financial ratios that indicate the profitability, financial stability and growth potential of a publicly-listed company.

# Objective
Trade&Ahead is a financial consultancy firm who provide their customers with personalized investment strategies. They have hired you as a Data Scientist and provided you with data comprising stock price and some financial indicators for a few companies listed under the New York Stock Exchange. They have assigned you the tasks of analyzing the data, grouping the stocks based on the attributes provided, and sharing insights about the characteristics of each group.
